docs/en/install/installing-devops.mdx, before:

---
weight: 30
sourceSHA: b49eb75e9882f9179094b757c4f51359bcc7cafa83afb70016d43a89b5af8c52
---

# Installing Alauda DevOps

This guide provides detailed steps for installing `Alauda DevOps`.

## Prerequisites

Ensure the `Alauda DevOps v3` operator is uploaded before proceeding.

For more information on uploading the operator, please refer to <ExternalSiteLink name="container_platform" href="ui/cli_tools/index.html#uploading-operators" children="Uploading Operators" />

## Install Operator

Go to the platform's `Administrator` -> `Marketplace` -> `OperatorHub` page, search for the `Alauda DevOps v3`, and then click on the operator card to enter the operator details page.

Click `Install` to install the operator.

## Deployment location

Deploy Katanomi instances in the Global cluster. The business cluster can deploy instances as needed for CI/CD.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>Component</th>
    <th style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>Global Cluster</th>
    <th style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>Business Cluster</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Katanomi</td>
    <td>Installed</td>
    <td>Optional</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Procedure

<Steps>

### Create the Katanomi Instance

:::warning
Only one Katanomi instance is supported.

- **Global cluster**: Deploy within the `cpaas-system` namespace. Set `ExternalURL` to the `Platform URL` of the `global` cluster and `Service.Type` to `Ingress`.
- **Business cluster**: Can be deployed in any namespace other than `cpaas-system`.
:::

- Login to the `Alauda Container Platform`  platform.
- Navigate to the **Clusters** tab under `Platform Management`.
- Select the deployed cluster and click **CLI Tools**.
- Create the Katanomi Instance (adjust parameters as needed)

global cluster
```shell
export NAMESPACE=cpaas-system
export EXTERNAL_URL=$(kubectl get prdb -n cpaas-system base -o jsonpath='{.spec.platformURL}')
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: operators.katanomi.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Katanomi
metadata:
  name: katanomi
  namespace: ${NAMESPACE}
spec:
  externalURL: ${EXTERNAL_URL}
  replicas: 1
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: "2"
      memory: 4Gi
    requests:
      cpu: "1"
      memory: 2Gi
  service:
    ingress:
      protocol: HTTP
    type: Ingress
EOF
```

business cluster
```shell
export NAMESPACE=katanomi-operator
export NODE_IP=$(kubectl get nodes -o jsonpath='{.items[0].status.addresses[?(@.type=="InternalIP")].address}' | awk -F" " '{print $1}')
export EXTERNAL_URL=http://${NODE_IP}:32001
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: operators.katanomi.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Katanomi
metadata:
  name: katanomi
  namespace: ${NAMESPACE}
spec:
  externalURL: ${EXTERNAL_URL}
  replicas: 1
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: "2"
      memory: 4Gi
    requests:
      cpu: "1"
      memory: 2Gi
  service:
    nodePort:
      apiPort:
        httpPort: 32000
      pluginPort:
        httpPort: 32001
    type: NodePort
EOF
```

- Wait for the DevOps Instance to be ready
  ```shell
  kubectl wait --for='jsonpath={.status.conditions[?(@.type=="Running")].status}=true' katanomis/katanomi -n cpaas-system --timeout=5m
  ```

### Preparation for CI/CD functionality

Before starting using build and release pipelines features of Alauda DevOps, platform administrators need to complete some preparation.

Refer to the documentation inside the platform after deploying Alauda DevOps v3: `<Platform URL>/console-devops-docs/en/devops-initialization/cicd/init/`

</Steps>

## Katanomi Parameter Description

<table>
  <tr>
    <th style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>Parameter</th>
    <th style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>Description</th>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Name</b></td>

    <td>
      The name of the Katanomi instance.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Namespaces</b></td>

    <td>
      For `business clusters`, the Katanomi instance can be deployed to any namespace provided there are sufficient resources available. For `global cluster`, the Katanomi instance must be deployed exclusively in the `cpaas-system` namespace.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>External URL</b></td>

    <td>
      The access address, which is the API address. Plan according to the configuration of the Service Type.<br />When the Service Type is `Node Port`, please enter `http://<IP>:<Port>`. The **Port** must be consistent with the `Node Port` of the Service, and the API port is used for service access.<br />When the Service Type is `Ingress`, please enter the corresponding access address, for example: `http://kubernetes.io`.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Replicas</b></td>

    <td>
      The number of replicas for the Deployment, default is 2. <br />
      When the number of replicas is 1, the single-node deployment is used.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Resources</b></td>

    <td>
      - <b>requests:</b> The minimum amount of CPU and memory resources that can be consumed when running the tool.
      - <b>limits:</b> The maximum amount of CPU and memory resources that need to be occupied when running the tool.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Service.Type	</b></td>

    <td>
      Required field. Provides two types: Node Port and Ingress.
      - <b>Node Port:</b> Exposes the route through a static port, accessed via `<IP>:<port>`.
      - <b>Ingress:</b> Exposes the route through inbound rules, accessed via a domain name.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Service.Ingress</b></td>

    <td>
      Required if Type is set to Ingress.
      - <b>Domain Name:</b> The domain name used to access the tool.
      - <b>Protocol:</b> Access the tool via HTTP or HTTPS.
      - <b>Secret Name:</b> The name of the SSL certificate used when accessing the tool via HTTPS.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Service.Node Port</b></td>

    <td>
      Required if <b>Type</b> is set to <b>Node Port</b>. The port number used to access the tool, the API Port and Plugin Port cannot be duplicated, and the port value range is 30000-32767.
      - <b>API Port:</b> The port used to access the Katanomi-api component via HTTP, which is used to perform tool integration binding-related operations.
      - <b>Plugin Port:</b> The port used to access the Katanomi-plugin component via HTTP, which is used in the platform to handle toolchain integration binding events.
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## FAQ

### Katanomi Pod Fails to Start Due to Read-Only Root Filesystem: /cpaas Directory Not Writable

Katanomi requires write access to the /cpaas directory on the host system to store audit logs. If the pod is unable to write to this directory, it will fail to start.

To resolve this issue, you can configure an alternative audit log storage path. For example:

```yaml
spec:
  helmValues:
    api:
      auditHostPath: /tmp/audit
    devopsApiServer:
      auditHostPath: /tmp/audit
    devopsApi:
      auditHostPath: /tmp/audit
```

This configuration directs Katanomi components to use /tmp/audit as the audit log storage path, ensuring compatibility with environments that enforce a read-only root filesystem. Adjust the path as needed to meet your security and operational requirements.

### How to Configure a Custom ImagePullSecret When Deploying Katanomi

To specify a custom ImagePullSecret for your Katanomi instance, add the following configuration:

```yaml
spec:
  helmValues:
    global:
      registry:
        imagePullSecret:
          name: <imagePullSecretName>
```

This configuration ensures that Katanomi uses the specified ImagePullSecret for pulling container images from private registries. Replace `imagePullSecretName` with the name of your pre-created Kubernetes secret containing the required registry credentials.

Commit message:

chore: update katanomi & jenkins ns security info

docs/en/install/installing-devops.mdx, after:

---
weight: 30
sourceSHA: b49eb75e9882f9179094b757c4f51359bcc7cafa83afb70016d43a89b5af8c52
---

# Installing Alauda DevOps

This guide provides detailed steps for installing `Alauda DevOps`.

## Prerequisites

Ensure the `Alauda DevOps v3` operator is uploaded before proceeding.

For more information on uploading the operator, please refer to <ExternalSiteLink name="container_platform" href="ui/cli_tools/index.html#uploading-operators" children="Uploading Operators" />

### Namespace Security Policy Requirements

* Katanomi only supports creating one instance. The instance can be deployed to any namespace, but the following conditions must be met:
    - Sufficient namespace resources
    - Namespace configured with privileged security policy

* Katanomi Operator requires the namespace to use privileged security policy configuration to function correctly. This requirement is based on the component's dependency on privileged containers and hostPath volume mounts.

    **Root Cause**: Katanomi Operator components require privileged container access and hostPath volume mounts (the audit log directory) for proper operation:

    - **Privileged Containers**: Multiple Katanomi Operator deployments utilize `privileged: true` security context:
      - `apiserver deployment` - The API server deployment requires `privileged: true` for executing `chown` to the audit log directory
      - `api deployment` - The API deployment uses `privileged: true` for executing `chown` to the audit log directory
      - `devops-api deployment` - The DevOps API deployment requires `privileged: true` for executing `chown` to the audit log directory
      - `build-image-buildkit-v1` tasks - Build tasks explicitly use `privileged: true` for container image building capabilities

## Install Operator

Go to the platform's `Administrator` -> `Marketplace` -> `OperatorHub` page, search for the `Alauda DevOps v3`, and then click on the operator card to enter the operator details page.

Click `Install` to install the operator.

## Deployment location

Deploy Katanomi instances in the Global cluster. The business cluster can deploy instances as needed for CI/CD.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>Component</th>
    <th style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>Global Cluster</th>
    <th style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>Business Cluster</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Katanomi</td>
    <td>Installed</td>
    <td>Optional</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Procedure

<Steps>

### Create the Katanomi Instance

:::warning
Only one Katanomi instance is supported.

- **Global cluster**: Deploy within the `cpaas-system` namespace. Set `ExternalURL` to the `Platform URL` of the `global` cluster and `Service.Type` to `Ingress`.
- **Business cluster**: Can be deployed in any namespace other than `cpaas-system`.
:::

- Login to the `Alauda Container Platform`  platform.
- Navigate to the **Clusters** tab under `Platform Management`.
- Select the deployed cluster and click **CLI Tools**.
- Create the Katanomi Instance (adjust parameters as needed)

global cluster
```shell
export NAMESPACE=cpaas-system
export EXTERNAL_URL=$(kubectl get prdb -n cpaas-system base -o jsonpath='{.spec.platformURL}')
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: operators.katanomi.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Katanomi
metadata:
  name: katanomi
  namespace: ${NAMESPACE}
spec:
  externalURL: ${EXTERNAL_URL}
  replicas: 1
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: "2"
      memory: 4Gi
    requests:
      cpu: "1"
      memory: 2Gi
  service:
    ingress:
      protocol: HTTP
    type: Ingress
EOF
```

business cluster
```shell
export NAMESPACE=katanomi-operator
export NODE_IP=$(kubectl get nodes -o jsonpath='{.items[0].status.addresses[?(@.type=="InternalIP")].address}' | awk -F" " '{print $1}')
export EXTERNAL_URL=http://${NODE_IP}:32001
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: operators.katanomi.dev/v1alpha1
kind: Katanomi
metadata:
  name: katanomi
  namespace: ${NAMESPACE}
spec:
  externalURL: ${EXTERNAL_URL}
  replicas: 1
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: "2"
      memory: 4Gi
    requests:
      cpu: "1"
      memory: 2Gi
  service:
    nodePort:
      apiPort:
        httpPort: 32000
      pluginPort:
        httpPort: 32001
    type: NodePort
EOF
```

- Wait for the DevOps Instance to be ready
  ```shell
  kubectl wait --for='jsonpath={.status.conditions[?(@.type=="Running")].status}=true' katanomis/katanomi -n cpaas-system --timeout=5m
  ```

### Preparation for CI/CD functionality

Before starting using build and release pipelines features of Alauda DevOps, platform administrators need to complete some preparation.

Refer to the documentation inside the platform after deploying Alauda DevOps v3: `<Platform URL>/console-devops-docs/en/devops-initialization/cicd/init/`

</Steps>

## Katanomi Parameter Description

<table>
  <tr>
    <th style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>Parameter</th>
    <th style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>Description</th>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Name</b></td>

    <td>
      The name of the Katanomi instance.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Namespaces</b></td>

    <td>
      For `business clusters`, the Katanomi instance can be deployed to any namespace provided there are sufficient resources available. For `global cluster`, the Katanomi instance must be deployed exclusively in the `cpaas-system` namespace.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>External URL</b></td>

    <td>
      The access address, which is the API address. Plan according to the configuration of the Service Type.<br />When the Service Type is `Node Port`, please enter `http://<IP>:<Port>`. The **Port** must be consistent with the `Node Port` of the Service, and the API port is used for service access.<br />When the Service Type is `Ingress`, please enter the corresponding access address, for example: `http://kubernetes.io`.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Replicas</b></td>

    <td>
      The number of replicas for the Deployment, default is 2. <br />
      When the number of replicas is 1, the single-node deployment is used.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Resources</b></td>

    <td>
      - <b>requests:</b> The minimum amount of CPU and memory resources that can be consumed when running the tool.
      - <b>limits:</b> The maximum amount of CPU and memory resources that need to be occupied when running the tool.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Service.Type	</b></td>

    <td>
      Required field. Provides two types: Node Port and Ingress.
      - <b>Node Port:</b> Exposes the route through a static port, accessed via `<IP>:<port>`.
      - <b>Ingress:</b> Exposes the route through inbound rules, accessed via a domain name.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Service.Ingress</b></td>

    <td>
      Required if Type is set to Ingress.
      - <b>Domain Name:</b> The domain name used to access the tool.
      - <b>Protocol:</b> Access the tool via HTTP or HTTPS.
      - <b>Secret Name:</b> The name of the SSL certificate used when accessing the tool via HTTPS.
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><b>Service.Node Port</b></td>

    <td>
      Required if <b>Type</b> is set to <b>Node Port</b>. The port number used to access the tool, the API Port and Plugin Port cannot be duplicated, and the port value range is 30000-32767.
      - <b>API Port:</b> The port used to access the Katanomi-api component via HTTP, which is used to perform tool integration binding-related operations.
      - <b>Plugin Port:</b> The port used to access the Katanomi-plugin component via HTTP, which is used in the platform to handle toolchain integration binding events.
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## FAQ

### Katanomi Pod Fails to Start Due to Read-Only Root Filesystem: /cpaas Directory Not Writable

Katanomi requires write access to the /cpaas directory on the host system to store audit logs. If the pod is unable to write to this directory, it will fail to start.

To resolve this issue, you can configure an alternative audit log storage path. For example:

```yaml
spec:
  helmValues:
    api:
      auditHostPath: /tmp/audit
    devopsApiServer:
      auditHostPath: /tmp/audit
    devopsApi:
      auditHostPath: /tmp/audit
```

This configuration directs Katanomi components to use /tmp/audit as the audit log storage path, ensuring compatibility with environments that enforce a read-only root filesystem. Adjust the path as needed to meet your security and operational requirements.

### How to Configure a Custom ImagePullSecret When Deploying Katanomi

To specify a custom ImagePullSecret for your Katanomi instance, add the following configuration:

```yaml
spec:
  helmValues:
    global:
      registry:
        imagePullSecret:
          name: <imagePullSecretName>
```

This configuration ensures that Katanomi uses the specified ImagePullSecret for pulling container images from private registries. Replace `imagePullSecretName` with the name of your pre-created Kubernetes secret containing the required registry credentials.
