docs/en/upgrade/migrating-tekton-v3-to-v4.mdx, before:

---
weight: 40
---

# Migrating from `Alauda DevOps Tekton v3` to `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`

:::note
- **This guide is specifically for migrating from `Alauda DevOps Tekton v3` to `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`.** For upgrading between `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` versions, please refer to the Pipelines upgrade documentation.
:::

This guide provides detailed steps for smoothly migrating from `Alauda DevOps Tekton v3` to `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`. The upgrade process is designed as a seamless migration to ensure your existing `CI/CD` pipelines remain unaffected.


## Migration Steps

### 1. Uninstall Existing Tekton Pipeline Instance and `Alauda DevOps Tekton v3`

Before starting the upgrade, you need to uninstall the existing Tekton components. Follow these steps:

> **Important Note:** The uninstallation process will not affect your existing Task, TaskRun, Pipeline, and PipelineRun resources. These resources will remain unchanged after the upgrade is complete.

1. **Delete Pipeline Instance**

   ```bash
   $ kubectl delete tektonpipelines.operator.tekton.dev pipeline
   ```

2. **Verify Pipeline Instance Deletion**

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get tektonpipelines.operator.tekton.dev pipeline
   ```

   Ensure the command returns no resources, indicating successful deletion.

3. **Uninstall Tekton Operator**

   ```bash
   $ kubectl delete subscriptions.operators.coreos.com tekton-operator -n tekton-operator
   ```

4. **Verify Operator Uninstallation**

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get subscriptions.operators.coreos.com -A | grep tekton
   ```

   Ensure the command returns no results, indicating successful uninstallation.

### 2. Deploy `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`

1. Navigate to your cluster's `Administrator` -> `Application Market Management` -> `OperatorHub` page
2. Search for and select **Alauda DevOps Pipelines**
3. Choose the appropriate Channel
  :::warning[Critical: Channel Selection]
  When deploying `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`, you **MUST** select the `pipelines-4.0` channel. **DO NOT** select the `latest` channel.

  - **Channel**: Must be `pipelines-4.0` (required for `Katanomi` pipeline compatibility)
  - **Version**: You may select any version within the `pipelines-4.0` channel

  Selecting the `latest` channel may cause automatic upgrades to v4.x or higher versions in the future, which could lead to irreversible compatibility issues with `Katanomi` pipelines.
  :::
4. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the deployment
5. **Wait for `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` Operator to be Ready**

   After the `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` Operator deployment is complete, it will automatically deploy related components such as `Pipelines`. You can check the component status using the following commands:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get tektonconfigs.operator.tekton.dev config

   $ kubectl get tektonpipelines.operator.tekton.dev pipeline
   ```

   Wait until both resources show a `Ready` status before proceeding to the next step.

### 3. (Optional) Adjust Operator Resources for Large-Scale Migrations

If your environment contains a large number of existing `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` resources, the `Tekton Operator` may encounter Out of Memory (OOM) errors during the one-time data migration process. Since the operator doesn't normally require such extensive resources, the default resource limits may be insufficient.

:::note[When to Apply This Configuration]
This step is only necessary if you have a large volume of existing Tekton resources. For most installations, you can skip this step and proceed to step 4.
:::

#### Adjusting Operator Resources

You can temporarily increase the operator's resource limits using either of these methods:

**Method 1: Using the Platform UI**
1. Navigate to the `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` operator page
2. Go to the **Subscription** tab
3. Click the **Edit Subscription** button
4. Add the resource configuration as shown below

**Method 2: Using kubectl CLI**

```bash
kubectl edit subscriptions.operators.coreos.com -n tekton-operator tektoncd-operator
```

Add the following `config` section under `spec`:

:::note
The `resources` values can be adjusted based on your environment's needs. The example below provides a balanced configuration suitable for most scenarios.
:::

```yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: tektoncd-operator
  namespace: tekton-operator
spec:
  channel: pipelines-4.0
  installPlanApproval: Manual
  name: tektoncd-operator
  source: platform
  sourceNamespace: cpaas-system
  config:
    resources:
      requests:
        cpu: "200m"
        memory: "256Mi"
      limits:
        cpu: "2"
        memory: "2Gi"
```

This configuration adjusts the `tekton-operator` Pod's resource quotas.

:::note
The operator will automatically begin migrating existing Tekton resources after deployment. You can monitor the migration progress through operator logs or check the `TektonConfig` status as described in step 5 below. Once migration is complete, you can remove the `config` section to restore default settings.
:::

:::note
- If you previously used `Tekton` only in `Alauda Container Platform Builds`, you can skip the following steps and use the default configuration of `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` directly.
:::

### 4. Configure TektonConfig

:::note
- If you previously used `Tekton` only in `Alauda Container Platform Builds`, you can skip the following steps and use the default configuration of `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` directly.
:::

After the Alauda DevOps Pipelines Operator deployment is complete, you need to configure the `TektonConfig` resource to ensure compatibility with your existing system:

> **Best Practice:** It is recommended to only modify the `spec.pipeline` section configuration to maintain system stability.

```yaml
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  pipeline:
    await-sidecar-readiness: true
    disable-creds-init: false
    enable-bundles-resolver: true
    enable-cluster-resolver: true
    enable-custom-tasks: true
    enable-git-resolver: true
    enable-hub-resolver: true
    enable-provenance-in-status: true
    enable-step-actions: true
    enforce-nonfalsifiability: none
    keep-pod-on-cancel: false
    metrics.count.enable-reason: false
    metrics.pipelinerun.duration-type: histogram
    metrics.pipelinerun.level: pipeline
    metrics.taskrun.duration-type: histogram
    metrics.taskrun.level: task

    performance:
      disable-ha: false
    require-git-ssh-secret-known-hosts: false
    running-in-environment-with-injected-sidecars: true
    send-cloudevents-for-runs: false
    set-security-context: false
    trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy: ignore

    # Tekton Operator compatibility configuration
    coschedule: workspaces
    disable-affinity-assistant: true
    enable-api-fields: alpha
    enable-cel-in-whenexpression: true
    enable-param-enum: true
    max-result-size: 8192
    results-from: sidecar-logs

    options:
      disabled: false
      configMaps:
        # Modify default configuration: init container quotas, runAsUser, image pull timeout
        config-defaults:
          data:
            # Container configuration
            default-imagepullbackoff-timeout: 5m
            default-pod-template: |
              securityContext:
                runAsUser: 0

  addon: {}
  chain:
    artifacts.oci.format: simplesigning
    artifacts.oci.storage: oci
    artifacts.pipelinerun.format: in-toto
    artifacts.pipelinerun.storage: oci
    artifacts.taskrun.format: in-toto
    artifacts.taskrun.storage: oci
    disabled: false
    options: {}
  config: {}
  dashboard:
    options: {}
    readonly: false
  hub:
    options: {}

  platforms:
    openshift: {}
  profile: all
  pruner:
    disabled: false
    keep: 100
    resources:
    - pipelinerun
    schedule: 0 8 * * *
  targetNamespace: tekton-pipelines
  trigger:
    enable-api-fields: stable
    options: {}
```

### 5. (Optional) Monitor and Verify Migration Progress

After the `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` operator is deployed (step 2), it automatically begins migrating existing Tekton resources. You can monitor the migration progress and verify completion at any time during or after the configuration process.

#### Method 1: Monitor Through Operator Logs

You can watch the migration progress in real-time by checking the `tekton-operator-webhook` logs:

```bash
kubectl logs -f -n tekton-operator tekton-operator-webhook-<suffix>
```

During the migration, you will see log entries like:

- `migrating %d group resources` - Indicates the total number of resource types to be migrated
- `migrating group resource` - Shows when migration of a specific resource type begins
- `migration completed` - Confirms that migration of a specific resource type has finished

#### Method 2: Check TektonConfig Status

To verify that the migration is complete, check the `TektonConfig` resource status:

```bash
kubectl get tektonconfigs.operator.tekton.dev config -o yaml
```

Look for the version annotations in the output:

```yaml
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
status:
  annotations:
    operator.tekton.dev/post-upgrade-version: v0.74.1-a07f82b
    operator.tekton.dev/pre-upgrade-version: v0.74.1-a07f82b
  version: v0.74.1-a07f82b
```

Migration is complete when `pre-upgrade-version` and `post-upgrade-version` match the current `version`.

:::note[Reminder]
If you adjusted the operator resources in step 3, you can now remove the `config` section from the `Subscription` to restore default resource settings.
:::

### 6. Configure Log Access Permissions

:::note
- If you previously used `Tekton` only in `Alauda Container Platform Builds`, you can skip the following steps and use the default configuration of `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` directly.
:::

Since the `results-from: sidecar-logs` feature is enabled, you need to configure log access permissions for the controller:

> **Technical Note:** This configuration allows the controller to retrieve results information from pod logs. For detailed information, please refer to the [Tekton official documentation](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/tree/main/optional_config/enable-log-access-to-controller).

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
kind: ClusterRole
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: tekton-pipelines-controller-pod-log-access
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/component: controller
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: default
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: tekton-pipelines
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/log"]
    verbs: ["get"]
---
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: tekton-pipelines-controller-pod-log-access
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/component: controller
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: default
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: tekton-pipelines
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: tekton-pipelines-controller
    namespace: tekton-pipelines
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: tekton-pipelines-controller-pod-log-access
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
EOF
```

## Migration Complete

After completing the above steps, you have successfully migrated from `Alauda DevOps Tekton v3` to `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`. The new version provides:

- Enhanced system stability
- Richer feature set
- Better performance
- More flexible configuration options

We recommend reviewing the `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` documentation to understand all the features the new version offers and take full advantage of its capabilities.

Commit message:

docs(upgrade): add Pod template configuration guidance for Tekton v3 to v4 migration (#80)
Add warning about runAsUser: 0 configuration causing Tekton catalog Tasks to fail,
and provide link to Pod Template Configuration Guide for proper PipelineRun overrides
to ensure both legacy and new pipelines work correctly.

docs/en/upgrade/migrating-tekton-v3-to-v4.mdx, after:

---
weight: 40
---

# Migrating from `Alauda DevOps Tekton v3` to `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`

:::note
- **This guide is specifically for migrating from `Alauda DevOps Tekton v3` to `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`.** For upgrading between `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` versions, please refer to the Pipelines upgrade documentation.
:::

This guide provides detailed steps for smoothly migrating from `Alauda DevOps Tekton v3` to `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`. The upgrade process is designed as a seamless migration to ensure your existing `CI/CD` pipelines remain unaffected.


## Migration Steps

### 1. Uninstall Existing Tekton Pipeline Instance and `Alauda DevOps Tekton v3`

Before starting the upgrade, you need to uninstall the existing Tekton components. Follow these steps:

> **Important Note:** The uninstallation process will not affect your existing Task, TaskRun, Pipeline, and PipelineRun resources. These resources will remain unchanged after the upgrade is complete.

1. **Delete Pipeline Instance**

   ```bash
   $ kubectl delete tektonpipelines.operator.tekton.dev pipeline
   ```

2. **Verify Pipeline Instance Deletion**

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get tektonpipelines.operator.tekton.dev pipeline
   ```

   Ensure the command returns no resources, indicating successful deletion.

3. **Uninstall Tekton Operator**

   ```bash
   $ kubectl delete subscriptions.operators.coreos.com tekton-operator -n tekton-operator
   ```

4. **Verify Operator Uninstallation**

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get subscriptions.operators.coreos.com -A | grep tekton
   ```

   Ensure the command returns no results, indicating successful uninstallation.

### 2. Deploy `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`

1. Navigate to your cluster's `Administrator` -> `Application Market Management` -> `OperatorHub` page
2. Search for and select **Alauda DevOps Pipelines**
3. Choose the appropriate Channel
  :::warning[Critical: Channel Selection]
  When deploying `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`, you **MUST** select the `pipelines-4.0` channel. **DO NOT** select the `latest` channel.

  - **Channel**: Must be `pipelines-4.0` (required for `Katanomi` pipeline compatibility)
  - **Version**: You may select any version within the `pipelines-4.0` channel

  Selecting the `latest` channel may cause automatic upgrades to v4.x or higher versions in the future, which could lead to irreversible compatibility issues with `Katanomi` pipelines.
  :::
4. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the deployment
5. **Wait for `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` Operator to be Ready**

   After the `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` Operator deployment is complete, it will automatically deploy related components such as `Pipelines`. You can check the component status using the following commands:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get tektonconfigs.operator.tekton.dev config

   $ kubectl get tektonpipelines.operator.tekton.dev pipeline
   ```

   Wait until both resources show a `Ready` status before proceeding to the next step.

### 3. (Optional) Adjust Operator Resources for Large-Scale Migrations

If your environment contains a large number of existing `TaskRun` and `PipelineRun` resources, the `Tekton Operator` may encounter Out of Memory (OOM) errors during the one-time data migration process. Since the operator doesn't normally require such extensive resources, the default resource limits may be insufficient.

:::note[When to Apply This Configuration]
This step is only necessary if you have a large volume of existing Tekton resources. For most installations, you can skip this step and proceed to step 4.
:::

#### Adjusting Operator Resources

You can temporarily increase the operator's resource limits using either of these methods:

**Method 1: Using the Platform UI**
1. Navigate to the `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` operator page
2. Go to the **Subscription** tab
3. Click the **Edit Subscription** button
4. Add the resource configuration as shown below

**Method 2: Using kubectl CLI**

```bash
kubectl edit subscriptions.operators.coreos.com -n tekton-operator tektoncd-operator
```

Add the following `config` section under `spec`:

:::note
The `resources` values can be adjusted based on your environment's needs. The example below provides a balanced configuration suitable for most scenarios.
:::

```yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: tektoncd-operator
  namespace: tekton-operator
spec:
  channel: pipelines-4.0
  installPlanApproval: Manual
  name: tektoncd-operator
  source: platform
  sourceNamespace: cpaas-system
  config:
    resources:
      requests:
        cpu: "200m"
        memory: "256Mi"
      limits:
        cpu: "2"
        memory: "2Gi"
```

This configuration adjusts the `tekton-operator` Pod's resource quotas.

:::note
The operator will automatically begin migrating existing Tekton resources after deployment. You can monitor the migration progress through operator logs or check the `TektonConfig` status as described in step 5 below. Once migration is complete, you can remove the `config` section to restore default settings.
:::

:::note
- If you previously used `Tekton` only in `Alauda Container Platform Builds`, you can skip the following steps and use the default configuration of `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` directly.
:::

### 4. Configure TektonConfig

:::note
- If you previously used `Tekton` only in `Alauda Container Platform Builds`, you can skip the following steps and use the default configuration of `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` directly.
:::

After the Alauda DevOps Pipelines Operator deployment is complete, you need to configure the `TektonConfig` resource to ensure compatibility with your existing system:

> **Best Practice:** It is recommended to only modify the `spec.pipeline` section configuration to maintain system stability.

```yaml
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  pipeline:
    await-sidecar-readiness: true
    disable-creds-init: false
    enable-bundles-resolver: true
    enable-cluster-resolver: true
    enable-custom-tasks: true
    enable-git-resolver: true
    enable-hub-resolver: true
    enable-provenance-in-status: true
    enable-step-actions: true
    enforce-nonfalsifiability: none
    keep-pod-on-cancel: false
    metrics.count.enable-reason: false
    metrics.pipelinerun.duration-type: histogram
    metrics.pipelinerun.level: pipeline
    metrics.taskrun.duration-type: histogram
    metrics.taskrun.level: task

    performance:
      disable-ha: false
    require-git-ssh-secret-known-hosts: false
    running-in-environment-with-injected-sidecars: true
    send-cloudevents-for-runs: false
    set-security-context: false
    trusted-resources-verification-no-match-policy: ignore

    # Tekton Operator compatibility configuration
    coschedule: workspaces
    disable-affinity-assistant: true
    enable-api-fields: alpha
    enable-cel-in-whenexpression: true
    enable-param-enum: true
    max-result-size: 8192
    results-from: sidecar-logs

    options:
      disabled: false
      configMaps:
        # Modify default configuration: init container quotas, runAsUser, image pull timeout
        config-defaults:
          data:
            # Container configuration
            default-imagepullbackoff-timeout: 5m
            default-pod-template: |
              securityContext:
                runAsUser: 0

  addon: {}
  chain:
    artifacts.oci.format: simplesigning
    artifacts.oci.storage: oci
    artifacts.pipelinerun.format: in-toto
    artifacts.pipelinerun.storage: oci
    artifacts.taskrun.format: in-toto
    artifacts.taskrun.storage: oci
    disabled: false
    options: {}
  config: {}
  dashboard:
    options: {}
    readonly: false
  hub:
    options: {}

  platforms:
    openshift: {}
  profile: all
  pruner:
    disabled: false
    keep: 100
    resources:
    - pipelinerun
    schedule: 0 8 * * *
  targetNamespace: tekton-pipelines
  trigger:
    enable-api-fields: stable
    options: {}
```

:::warning[Important: Ensuring Both Legacy and New Pipelines Work]
The configuration above sets `runAsUser: 0` in the global `default-pod-template` to ensure backward compatibility with your existing Pipelines and container images.

**However, this configuration will cause new Pipelines using Tasks from the Tekton catalog to fail**, because these catalog Tasks require `runAsUser: 65532` and `fsGroup: 65532` for security and proper file permissions.

**Solution**: To ensure both legacy Pipelines and new Pipelines (using official Tasks) work correctly, you need to override the Pod template configuration at the PipelineRun level for Pipelines using official Tasks.

For detailed guidance on how to configure Pod templates for different scenarios, including:
- How to override Pod template for specific PipelineRuns
- Using TaskRunSpecs for fine-grained control when mixing official and custom Tasks
- Security best practices and configuration examples (see Example 5: Using Official Tasks with Legacy Global Configuration)

Please refer to the <ExternalSiteLink name="alauda-devops-pipelines" href="/configure/pod_template_guide" children="Pod Template Configuration Guide" />.
:::

### 5. (Optional) Monitor and Verify Migration Progress

After the `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` operator is deployed (step 2), it automatically begins migrating existing Tekton resources. You can monitor the migration progress and verify completion at any time during or after the configuration process.

#### Method 1: Monitor Through Operator Logs

You can watch the migration progress in real-time by checking the `tekton-operator-webhook` logs:

```bash
kubectl logs -f -n tekton-operator tekton-operator-webhook-<suffix>
```

During the migration, you will see log entries like:

- `migrating %d group resources` - Indicates the total number of resource types to be migrated
- `migrating group resource` - Shows when migration of a specific resource type begins
- `migration completed` - Confirms that migration of a specific resource type has finished

#### Method 2: Check TektonConfig Status

To verify that the migration is complete, check the `TektonConfig` resource status:

```bash
kubectl get tektonconfigs.operator.tekton.dev config -o yaml
```

Look for the version annotations in the output:

```yaml
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
status:
  annotations:
    operator.tekton.dev/post-upgrade-version: v0.74.1-a07f82b
    operator.tekton.dev/pre-upgrade-version: v0.74.1-a07f82b
  version: v0.74.1-a07f82b
```

Migration is complete when `pre-upgrade-version` and `post-upgrade-version` match the current `version`.

:::note[Reminder]
If you adjusted the operator resources in step 3, you can now remove the `config` section from the `Subscription` to restore default resource settings.
:::

### 6. Configure Log Access Permissions

:::note
- If you previously used `Tekton` only in `Alauda Container Platform Builds`, you can skip the following steps and use the default configuration of `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` directly.
:::

Since the `results-from: sidecar-logs` feature is enabled, you need to configure log access permissions for the controller:

> **Technical Note:** This configuration allows the controller to retrieve results information from pod logs. For detailed information, please refer to the [Tekton official documentation](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/tree/main/optional_config/enable-log-access-to-controller).

```bash
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
kind: ClusterRole
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: tekton-pipelines-controller-pod-log-access
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/component: controller
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: default
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: tekton-pipelines
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods/log"]
    verbs: ["get"]
---
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: tekton-pipelines-controller-pod-log-access
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/component: controller
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: default
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: tekton-pipelines
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: tekton-pipelines-controller
    namespace: tekton-pipelines
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: tekton-pipelines-controller-pod-log-access
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
EOF
```

## Migration Complete

After completing the above steps, you have successfully migrated from `Alauda DevOps Tekton v3` to `Alauda DevOps Pipelines`. The new version provides:

- Enhanced system stability
- Richer feature set
- Better performance
- More flexible configuration options

We recommend reviewing the `Alauda DevOps Pipelines` documentation to understand all the features the new version offers and take full advantage of its capabilities.
